Poor layout can be very frustrating
A man in a kitchen is looking for thing to make a coffee
and the same applies to the web.
Good design involves good layout
and that means a better user experience.
The man is frustrated about not finding what he is looking for
The man rearranges the kitchen in a time-lapse
This includes clear headings, navigation bars
and consistent styling.
The man is now browsing a badly laid out pizza delivery website
and is shaking his head.
Any web-user will get frustrated with bad layout and design.
A woman is using the same complex website with screen magnification.
She only sees a portion of the screen at a time
so the website appears even more confusing
Complex layouts also make finding information difficult
or impossible for people with visual disabilities.
The woman is shaking her head
and is unable to use that website
and they are confusing for people with cognitive and learning disabilities
who need clarity and consistency of the presentation
The man calls a friend over to help
The friend is just as confused and navigates to a different
better pizza website
Bad design also impacts anyone who isn't particularly
confident around computers
This second website is much clearer and easier to use
They are both happy
The woman using screen magnification has also used that website
and is delightfully eating a pizza
Web accessibility
Essential for some, useful for all.